Filename: captcha-plugin-draft.txt
Title: Toward a better Cloudflare CAPTCHA
Authors: George Tankersley, Filippo Valsorda
Created: 19-Jan-2016
Status: Draft

Change history:
  2016-01-19: Initial draft
  2016-02-06: Revisions, filled in some TODOs
  2016-02-12: Fill in more blanks

Overview:

  In many IP reputation systems, Tor exits quickly become associated with
  abuse.  Because of this, Tor Browser users quickly become familiar with
  various CAPTCHA challenges. The worst of these is Cloudflare- since their
  CAPTCHA service requires JavaScript to serve anything but unreadable noise,
  they render an increasingly large portion of the internet inaccessible to Tor
  Browser users.

  This document describes a solution to this problem. We propose a Tor Browser
  plugin that will store a finite set of unlinkable CAPTCHA bypass tokens and a
  server-side redemption system that will consume them, allowing users to
  forego solving a CAPTCHA so long as they supply a valid token.

0.1. Rationale

  Since the Cloudflare system depends heavily on an IP reputation database to
  detect abuse, these challenge pages have become a familiar sight to users of
  Tor, I2P, and popular VPN services. While they are intended as a minor
  inconvenience, they are impenetrable for users with high privacy or security
  requirements. ReCAPTCHA de facto demands JavaScript execution- the challenges
  it produces without JS have degraded to such an extent that humans frequently
  cannot solve them. Worse, the challenge page sets a unique cookie to indicate
  that the user has been verified. Since Cloudflare controls the domains for
  all of the protected origins, it can potentially link CAPTCHA users across
  all >2 million Cloudflare sites without violating same-origin policy.

  This protocol solves both of these problems. First, it moves JavaScript
  execution into a consistent browser plugin that can be more effectively
  audited than a piece of ephemerally injected JavaScript. Second, it separates
  CAPTCHA solving from the request endpoint and eliminates linkability across
  domains with blind signatures.

  The protocol provides a similar level of abuse protection as the current
  system. Cloudflare's CAPTCHAs primarily protect websites from brute-force
  attacks. They are a cost-increasing measure, not a panacea. Our goal with
  this proposal is to increase the cost for automated or large-scale attackers
  (e.g. DoS attempts, spammers, and automated scans) while decreasing the
  frequency at which legitimate Tor users must solve CAPTCHAs. A common
  characteristic of these attackers is that they must make many requests. Thus,
  our system uses a token-per-request model. For each request a client makes to
  a Cloudflare host that would otherwise demand a CAPTCHA solution, a browser
  plugin will automatically supply a bypass token. By issuing a number of
  tokens per CAPTCHA solution that is suitable for ordinary browsing but too
  low for attacks, we maintain similar protective guarantees to those of
  Cloudflare's current system. We also leave the door open to an elevated
  threat response that does not offer to accept bypass tokens.

0.2. Notation and vocabulary

   We use two vertical bars || to denote concatenation with a delimiter.

   We write sequences of bytes in two ways:

     1. A sequence of two-digit hexadecimal values in square brackets,
        as in [AB AD 1D EA].

     2. A string of characters enclosed in quotes, as in "Hello". These
        characters in these string are encoded in their ascii
        representations; strings are NOT nul-terminated unless
        explicitly described as NUL terminated.

0.3. Cryptographic building blocks

   This specification uses the following cryptographic building blocks:

      * A public key encryption system PK_KEYGEN()->seckey, pubkey;
        PK_ENCRYPT(pubkey, msg)->ciphertext; and PK_DECRYPT(seckey,
        ciphertext)->msg; where secret keys are of length PK_SECKEY_LEN bytes,
        and public keys are of length PK_PUBKEY_LEN bytes.

      * A public key signature system SIGN_KEYGEN()->seckey, pubkey;
        SIGN_SIGN(seckey,msg)->sig; and SIGN_CHECK(pubkey, sig, msg) -> { "OK",
        "BAD" }; where secret keys are of length SIGN_SECKEY_LEN bytes, public
        keys are of length SIGN_PUBKEY_LEN bytes, and signatures are of length
        SIGN_SIG_LEN bytes.

        This signature system must also support blind signing as discussed in
        appendix [BLINDING].

      * A cryptographic hash function H(d), which should be preimage and
        collision resistant. It produces hashes of length HASH_LEN bytes.

      * A cryptographic message authentication code MAC(key,msg) that produces
        outputs of length MAC_LEN bytes.

We provisionally instantiate these with

  For both PK and SIGN: 2048-bit RSA using OEAP and PSS (respectively) for
  normal operations. Discussion of the blind signatures can be found in
  [BLINDING].

  For H: SHA256

  For MAC: HMAC-SHA256

[TODO: I would really like to use something other than RSA, but haven't found
satisfactory research on alternative blind signature schemes.]

0.4. Participants

  The "challenge service" presents users with CAPTCHAs and issues blind tokens
  if they successfully solve the CAPTCHA.

  The "edge" proxies connections for a protected website and presents a
  challenge page if the request is deemed malicious. The edge also consumes
  bypass tokens and prevents double spending.

  The "plugin" runs in a user's browser and keeps track of their store of
  bypass tokens. It detects challenges pages and presents bypass tokens when
  needed. It also pins keys from challenge pages and validates <meta> tag
  signatures.

  These roles are similar to the mint, the merchant, and the customer in the
  GNU Taler protocol. The plugin's pinned keys and TBB's deterministic builds
  serve the function of "auditor".

0.5. Cryptographic keys

  This protocol involves several keys. For clarity, they are:

    * One secret/public keypair for ENCRYPT, used by the plugin to encrypt the
      token contents such that they can only be read by the edge.

    * One secret/public keypair for SIGN, used by the challenge service to sign
      bypass tokens. The plugin SHOULD be distributed with a pinned copy of
      this public key for each supported challenge service. The edge MUST have
      a copy of this public key for any challenge service whose tokens it
      accepts.

    * One secret/public keypair for SIGN, used by the edge to sign <meta> tags
      on challenge pages. If the same operator controls both the edge and the
      challenge service, this MUST be different from the keypair used to sign
      bypass tokens because the client has access to a signing oracle under the
      token key (see "Obtaining signatures"). The plugin should be distributed
      with a pinned copy of this public key for each supported edge.

    * A symmetric MAC key derived from each nonce, used by the plugin to bind a
      redeemed nonce to its particular request.

1. Protocol elements

1.1. Obtaining signatures

  When a <form> tag contains a <input> tag with type="hidden" and
  id="blind-captcha-bypass-tokens", a compatible plugin SHOULD

     * generate 10000 nonce tokens [see NONCE] and save them
     * blind them as appropriate [see BLINDING]
     * send the binded values comma-separated as the value of the <input> tag
       when the form is submitted

  Commonly, the <form> tag will be the one where a CAPTCHA solution is
  submitted.

  The server, after performing validation on the rest of the request (i.e.
  checking the CAPTCHA solution), SHOULD sign the blinded values and send the
  signatures comma-separated as the Response HTTP header
  "X-Blind-Captcha-Bypass-Signatures".

  The client then:

     * unblinds the signatures
     * pairs them with the corresponding tokens
     * checks the signature against the pinned challenge service key
     * stores the signed tokens, scoped for the given challenge service key

  The client MUST validate the signatures with the pinned key to prevent
  tracking via per-user signing keys.

1.1. Requesting tokens

  An edge server CAN communicate to a client that it will accept tokens signed
  by a certain challenge service key by including in a HTML page <head> a
  <meta> tag with the following attributes:

     * type = "blind-captcha-bypass-request"
     * server-key = fingerprint of the challenge service token signing key
     * timestamp = the current time in ISOXXXX format // TODO
     * sig = a signature from the edge identity key over the data:

        "REQUEST" || server-key || the origin hostname || the "timestamp" field

  The <meta> tag will commonly be included in a challenge page. 
  When encountering such a <meta> tag, a compatible client SHOULD

     * check that the server key is one of the pinned server token keys
     * check if it has available tokens signed by the given server key
     * check that the timestamp is less than 5 minutes old
     * verify the signature in the "sig" field
     * mark the current origin as accepting tokens signed with the given server
       key
     * reload the page

  A client SHOULD NOT reload the page if it tried to redeem a token while
  loading it the first time, to avoid infinite loops.

1.2. Redeeming tokens

  Every time a client sends an HTTP request to an origin marked as accepting
  tokens for a certain server key, it CAN send a "X-Blind-Captcha-Bypass-Token"
  HTTP header, composed of the following comma-separated fields:

     * a yet unused nonce, encrypted with the corresponding server identity key
     * the unblined signature for that token
     * a HMAC, keyed with the nonce, of the concatenation of the Host header
       and the HTTP path of the request

  Used nonces MUST be deleted immediately by the client.

  The server, when receiving such a header performs validation as follows:

     * set a "success" bool to true
     * decrypt the nonce, if the nonce is malformed set "success" to false
     * check if the nonce was already used, if so set "success" to false
     * check the signature on the nonce, if invalid set "success" to false
     * check the HMAC on the headers, if invalid set "success" to false

  A server MUST reject malformed nonces if a client tries to redeem them, even
  if they come with a valid signature.

  If at the end of this process "success" is true, the server SHOULD treat the
  request as coming from a client that solved a CAPTCHA recently. It SHOULD NOT
  persist this information, as the client MUST spend a different nonce for each
  request.

1.2.1. Double-spend detection

  The scheme requires the server to detect nonce reuse with reasonable
  reliability. However, there might be no need for a zero false positives rate,
  because if an attacker needs to make 10000 requests to have one succeed,
  that's possibly an acceptable tradeoff.

  Therefore, the server CAN use a probabilistic data structure to store and
  lookup used nonces, like a fixed size replacement hash table (a hash table
  where bucket collisions are handled by replacing the old element in the
  bucket), as long as the hash function is secretly keyed (to prevent the
  attacker from finding a collision and then using alternatively one nonce and
  then the other, getting unlimited tokens).

  TODO: FORMULA

Appendix A: Token formats [NONCE]

  Tokens are base64-encoded signed JWTs containing a "nonce" field. Nonces are
  30-byte (including delimiter) ASCII strings following this format:

    "NONCE" || 24-character random hex string

  The random string is the last 24 characters of the hex-encoded H of 12
  cryptographically random bytes.

  Tokens are signed using RFCXXXX-format JWS signatures of type "PS256".

  Public keys are represented in transit as RFCXXXX-format JWK objects.

Appendix B: Cryptography details [CRYPTO]

  Encryption is accomplished using ENCRYPT, which we propose as standard
  2048-bit RSA-OEAP. The entire signed JWT is encrypted. The plugin MUST use
  the pinned public key for a particular edge to encrypt messages to that edge.

  Plain signatures (for the <meta> tags) are made with SIGN, which we propose
  as 2048-bit RSA-PSS.

  To prevent key tagging attacks [see SECURITY] there is no provision for
  in-band updates of any asymmetric keypairs.

  MAC keys are derived by applying HKDF to the nonce string [TODO]

Appendix C: Nonce blinding [BLINDING]

  Blinding is TODO, blind signatures are TODO, unblinding is TODO

Appendix D: Security Considerations [SECURITY]

  We have considered and addressed several attacks against this design.

  Deanonymization potential

    The current Cloudflare CAPTCHA simply places a cookie allowing you to
    access the website. Since Cloudflare controls the origins, it could
    currently correlate user sessions across multiple circuits using these
    cookies. This is a gap in the Tor Browser threat model- the design
    explicitly ignores linking within a session by malicious first parties, but
    Cloudflare has effectively first-party control over a massive swath of the
    web.

    Our design is an improvement over this state of affairs. Since the CAPTCHA
    service only sees blinded nonces, Cloudflare cannot link a CAPTCHA solution
    session to a given redemption request. Since each token is used only once,
    in contrast to a cookie, the tokens themselves cannot be used to link
    requests.

    The largest vector for deanonymization is something we call the "key
    tagging attack" - in short, Cloudflare could sign nonces using a unique key
    for every user and link the redemption requests (and thus derive the user's
    browsing history) by using the alleged "public" key as an identifier. Our
    design addresses this by pinning the Cloudflare public key in the Tor
    Browser plugin itself. At the very least this ensures that all plugin users
    are seeing the same Cloudflare key.

    [TODO: We've thought about this, but we're far from experts in anonymity.
    Review is badly needed!]

  Interception of redemption tokens by malicious exits

    If the target site is accessed over HTTP, there is an opportunity for a
    malicious exit to extract the tokens from the user's requests and replay
    them for its own use. To alleviate this, we include a MAC over the HOST and
    PATH headers for a particular request using the redeemed nonce as a key.
    Since the unblinded nonce is known only to the client and the CAPTCHA
    service endpoint (due to the copy encrypted in the redemption token) it
    constitutes a shared key that allows the service to verify this binding and
    disallow out-of-scope replays. This provides very similar behavior to
    third-party caveats in Google's macaroon design.

  Token stockpiling

    An attacker who wishes to bypass many CAPTCHAs in the future could
    intentionally trigger CAPTCHAs (e.g. by first running attacks through a
    particular IP) and save the resulting tokens for later.

    [TODO: We don't have a great answer for this. Halp!]

  Token exhaustion attacks by malicious exits or sites

    An entity with the ability to inject content (such as a malicious exit or
    website) can spoof requests for bypass tokens. In the absence of logic to
    prevent this, an attacker can induse the TBB plugin to spend all of its
    bypass tokens.

